BUILD
=====

This document describes the technical details of the RIDE project:

 * How to build, run and test RIDE
 * What's in the source
 * How to contribute
 * How to make a release
 * Settings migrations

Developing
==========

RIDE uses Paver__ as it's build tool. Packaging, testing, and running a
development version without installation can all be done using Paver. Install
Paver and run::

    paver help

for more information.

__ http://paver.github.com/paver


MacOS 10.7+
-----------
wxPython is limited to running in 32-bit mode.
Python itself should thus be executed in 32-bit mode. This can be done by setting:

  export VERSIONER_PYTHON_PREFER_32_BIT=yes


Repository contents
===================

Repository contains source code, unit tests, and some helper scripts for
development and package generation.

Source code
-----------

Source code is located in `src` directory. `src/bin` contains installed start
scripts and `src/robotide` contains the actual source code.


Unit tests
----------

Unit tests are in `utest` directory. They can be executed with::

  paver test



Contributing
============

Fork and send a pull request! To enhance the possibility of getting the pull
request merged, read guidelines below.


Coding guidelines
=================

In general, all the code should be written according to Style Guide for Python
Code [5] However, as stated in the Zen of Python, practicality beats purity.

Method names
------------

Typically, we use `lowercase_with_underscore` style for method names. Of
course, when overriding wx methods, `AllCapitalized` style must be used.
Additionally, there's a special case when writing event handler methods. We
have chosen to name event handlers following this pattern: `OnEventName` (e.g.
`OnMouseClick`).

Variable names
--------------

Instance variables also follow the `lowercase_with_underscore` naming
convention.  Additionally, a leading underscore indicates that the variable is
considered private.

Global variables (provided there's really a need for such) use `ALL_CAPS`
style.

Getters and setters
-------------------

We follow the Pythonic way of not implementing getters and setters in the case
where direct attribute access is sufficient


 http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/


Releasing
=========

* All positiva (and negative) value from development to the end users comes only after you have released what you have made.
* Every day you keep postponing release will remove some value you could have added by releasing today (fixed bugs are still in production and new features are still not there).
* Release early and often!

Currently (10.8.2012) RIDE is used in many differing environments by a rather large userbase (reported bugs per feature is 1.56 - compared to RF:s 0.75). 
Thus simulating (testing) all the possible use cases is more or less impossible (NOTE: You should still try to test all the relevant cases). 
We can still keep the user observed quality good by doing small changes at a time and reacting fast to any observed regressions.
This should efficiently limit the number of users that encounter a specific defect.

* *Consider making a preview release* - this will give you possibility to test the new release with friendly real users 

Remember the "good old" times - these are not the only ones: 

  * https://groups.google.com/d/topic/robotframework-users/C4SdqaqLFcw/discussion
  * https://groups.google.com/d/topic/robotframework-users/_7D3MR9fMQw/discussion
  * https://groups.google.com/d/topic/robotframework-users/Al7PpTfpUgw/discussion

And then positive examples from previews:

  * https://groups.google.com/d/topic/robotframework-users/02kWX2nnfds/discussion
  * https://groups.google.com/d/topic/robotframework-users/rjyPg8C7FXM/discussion - most of the discussion in this case is not public but without it we would have been in a lot of trouble (multiprocessing was removed from library database)

* Usually I try to do releases before lunch - this gives us some time to react to possible regressions during the release day
* Avoid releasing on Fridays! - lousy reaction time (or weekend work) if there is a regression
* Manually test run RIDE in windows, linux and OSX
* Update the ReleaseNotes with "python get_issues.py rotes ride 0.xx" (the script is from robotframework-wiki-project / tools)

::

  > paver test
  > paver set_version 0.xx
  > paver sdist
  > git commit -am 'Version 0.xx'
  > git tag 0.xx
  > git push
  > git push --tags

* currently (10.8.2012) it seems that something creates garbage to development directory so I always take a new clone for distribution packages

::

  > cd ..
  > git clone [your local ride clone] ride-release
  > cd ride-release
  > git checkout 0.xx
  > paver sdist OR paver wininst
  > cd ..

* Upload new packages to github
* Register new packages to PyPI - the Python Package Index. 
  NOTE! RIDE automatic update notifier checks updates from PyPI - so no update notifications without this step.

::

  > paver register

* Announce on usergroup, robot homepage, and twitter

Minor releases
==============

If there for some reason is a critical problem with a new release, it is important to get that fixed quickly.
The user observed quality is somewhat based on time. Less time that a critical problem exists implies 
less users affected by the critical problem. Also the users that have been affected by the problem will 
see quick resolution as a quality attribute - we are listening to them and doing things to help them versus 
we are ignoring there problems.

* First things first: Fix the problem and commit

If there are other work already commited to master:

* Checkout the tagged release to a new branch - mitigate the probability of introducing new defects

::

  > git checkout 0.xx -b 0.xx.x

* Cherrypick the fix to that branch

::

  > git cherry-pick FIX_COMMIT

* Make a new tagged minor release from that branch

::

  > git push origin 0.xx.x
  > paver test
  > paver set_version 0.xx.y
  > paver sdist
  > git commit -am 'Version 0.xx.y'
  > git tag 0.xx.y
  > git push
  > git push --tags

Settings migration
==================

RIDE has a user specific configuration file that you usually don't need to worry about.
But sometimes old configurations should be changed during RIDE version update. For example when the old configuration
had a bug or new RIDE uses a differing kind of configuration parameter then the old version.

For these situations I've created a configuration migration system that can do these changes when a new version of RIDE is taken in to use.
The migrator is currenlty (10.8.2012) located at preferences/settings.py/SettingsMigrator.

The mechanism works in the following way:
 * Settings have a settings_version attribute that should be updated when a new migration is needed
 * the SettingsMigrator.migrate method should be updated so that it will also do the new migration
 * You only need to add a migration from the previous version to current (the migrate method will handle all the older versions - 
so only the last configuration delta is needed)

Hope this helps when persistent things change a lot.

